Create introduction to Extended Usage (#800)
pasqal-io/Pulser: docs/source/extended_usage_intro.md

# Introduction to Extended Usage

> In the "Fundamentals" section, we introduced the basic tools for Analog quantum computing with the Ising Hamiltonian. In this section, we present more tools for Analog quantum computing with the Ising Hamiltonian, as well as introduce other tools to program in other quantum computing paradigms: Weighted Analog and Digital. 

Author: `Analog quantum computing with the Ising Hamiltonian` is something I wanted to discuss. I thought that this is the name of the concept we said we would be advertising (in a marketing way), implicitely refering to "Global" control over the qubits. If I want to criticize the naming of the concept, "Analog" is not very correct, since even our "Digital" operations are done in an analog way.

Perhaps it is not very speaking in itself, and `Global Rydberg quantum computing` would be better ?

```suggestion
In the "Fundamentals" section, we introduced the basic tools for Global Rydberg quantum computing. In this section, we present more tools for Global Rydberg quantum computing, as well as introduce new quantum computing paradigms: Weighted Rydberg, Global XY and Digital. 
```

> In the "Fundamentals" section, we introduced the basic tools for Analog quantum computing with the Ising Hamiltonian. In this section, we present more tools for Analog quantum computing with the Ising Hamiltonian, as well as introduce other tools to program in other quantum computing paradigms: Weighted Analog and Digital. 

Author: I have made a short introduction at the beginning at each paragraph, and changed the sentence here to say that they will be defined later. But indeed, we don't mention "Analog quantum computing" before - is it the correct expression ?

> ## Extending Analog Quantum Computing with the Ising Hamiltonian

Author: Exteding Rydberg Global Quantum Computing ?

Let's follow the [step-by-step guide on how to create a quantum program using Pulser](./programming.md#writing-a-pulser-program):

### 1. Pick a Device

[VirtualDevice](./tutorials/virtual_devices.nblink) extends the definition of [Device](./hardware.ipynb), enabling the definition of a `Device` with less physical constraints.

### 2. Create the Register

- [3D Registers](./apidoc/_autosummary/pulser.Register3D) enable the definition of Registers in 3D.
- [RegisterLayout](./tutorials/reg_layouts.nblink) defines the layout of traps from which registers of atoms can be defined. For some QPU, it is mandatory to define the `Register` from a `RegisterLayout`. 
- [MappableRegister](./tutorials/reg_layouts.nblink) is a `Register` with the traps of each qubit still to be defined.

### 3. Pick the channels

- [Modulation](./tutorials/output_mod_eom.nblink): Each channel has a _modulation bandwidth_, that defines how the pulses that will be added to it will be affected by the modulation phenomenon.

> - [EOM](./tutorials/output_mod_eom.nblink): Some channels support an "EOM" mode, a mode in which the pulses are less impacted by the modulation phenomenon, but have to be of square shape.

Author: Last time I tried it failed, let's try again...

### 4. Add the Pulses

- [Arbitrary Phase Waveforms](./apidoc/_autosummary/pulser.Pulse) enables the definition of a Pulse with an arbitrary phase.

### Other extended usage

- [Parametrized Sequence](./tutorials/paramseqs.nblink) enables to generate multiple Sequences that vary only in a few parameters.
- [Serialization/Deserialization](./tutorials/serialization.nblink) enable the import/export of Sequences between different locations.

> ## Weighted Analog Quantum Computing

Author: I  am redirecting to the dmm.html https://pulser.readthedocs.io/en/stable/tutorials/dmm.html... Perhaps it was not clear, it might be better now, just let me know.

### Weighted Analog with the Ising Hamiltonian

> The `Channel` associated with Analog Quantum Computing with the Ising Hamiltonian is the `Rydberg.Global` channel. It enables to manipulate the [Ising Hamiltonian](./programming.md#ising-hamiltonian):

Author: Good idea !

$$\frac{H}{\hbar}(t) = \sum_{k=1}^N \left (\frac{\Omega(t)}{2} e^{-i\phi(t)} |g\rangle\langle r|_k + \frac{\Omega(t)}{2} e^{i\phi(t)} |r\rangle\langle g|_k - \delta(t) |r\rangle\langle r|_k(t) + \sum_{j<k}\frac{C_6}{\hbar R_{kj}^6} \hat{n}_k \hat{n}_j \right)
$$

_Weighted Analog with the Ising Hamiltonian_ designates quantum programs combining the `Rydberg.Global` channel with a `DMM` channel. It enables the definition of an Ising Hamiltonian with local control over the detuning:

> $$\frac{H}{\hbar}(t) = \sum_{k=1}^N \left (\frac{\Omega(t)}{2} e^{-i\phi(t)} |g\rangle\langle r|_k + \frac{\Omega(t)}{2} e^{i\phi(t)} |r\rangle\langle g|_k - (\delta(t)+\epsilon_k\delta_{DMM}(t)) + |r\rangle\langle r|_k(t) + \sum_{j<k}\frac{C_6}{\hbar R_{kj}^6} \hat{n}_k \hat{n}_j \right)

Author: I can give it a try :)

$$

Here, the _weights_ $\{\epsilon_k\}_{1\lt k\lt N}$ are defined by a `DetuningMap`, that has to be defined right after [you create the register](./programming.md#2-create-the-register).

### Weighted Analog with the XY Hamiltonian

One can also perform Analog Quantum Computing with the [XY Hamiltonian](./programming.md#xy-hamiltonian). The `Channel` associated with this is the `Microwave.Global` Channel:

$$\frac{H}{\hbar}(t) = \sum_{k=1}^N \left (\frac{\Omega(t)}{2} e^{-i\phi(t)} |g\rangle\langle r|_k + \frac{\Omega(t)}{2} e^{i\phi(t)} |r\rangle\langle g|_k - \delta(t) |r\rangle\langle r|_k(t) + \sum_{j<k}\frac{C_3}{\hbar R_{kj}^3} (|1\rangle\langle 0|_k |0\rangle\langle 1|_j + |0\rangle\langle 1|_i |1\rangle\langle 0|_k) \right)
$$

> 

Author: No, but I came to realize my titles are not correct and confusing (I tried to make this general, but it failed). This is related to your question below:

> I though I knew the difference between DMM and SLM and I think now I am a b it confused.
> Is there a way to explain what they do in few words?

The SLM is the object you use to generate a DetuningMap, assigning a different weight to each atom in the Register. A DMM (DetuningMapModulator) is the channel that applies a pulse on the SLM, and can modulate it along time.

When you use an SLM mask on a Rydberg channel, you implicitely ask to create a DetuningMap assigning to each atom in the register a weight of 1, and to configure a DMM with this DetuningMap. When a pulse is added to the Rydberg channel, a constant detuning of minimal detuning is applied on the DMM during the duration of this Pulse.

When you use an SLM mask on a Global Microwave channel, you are implicitely:
- using a Rydberg Global channel to prepare your system in the XY basis.
- declaring an SLM mask on this Rydberg Global channel to modify the state during the state preparation. (The first pulse you are adding to the Microwave channel is then not really added to the Microwave channel but converted into a pulse to add to the Rydberg channel and a waveform to add to the DMM).

> 

Author: To conclude: "Weighted analog with the XY Hamiltonian" is perhaps confusing. As suggested above, "Global XY quantum computing" would eventually be better.

> An `SLM mask`, relying on a `DMM`, can be used here to prepare the initial state of the qubits in a state different than $\left|0\right>\otimes \left|0\right> \otimes ... \otimes \left|0\right>$.

Author: Yep, it's deleted.

> ### Documentation

Author: References ?

> - An in-depth presentation of Weighted Analog with the Ising Hamiltonian is available [in this notebook](./tutorials/dmm.nblink). Notably, it presents how to create a `DetuningMap`, how to pick a `DMM` and how to add detuning waveforms $\delta_{DMM}$ to it. 

Author: This is usually something to avoid, because the title can change (and it will), but the link usually stays...

- The `DMM` enables to use the [SLM mask feature](./tutorials/slm_mask.nblink), that allows the preparation of the qubits in an initial state composed of:
    - ground $\left|g\right>$ and Rydberg state $\left|r\right>$ when the SLM mask is applied on a `Rydberg.Global` channel.
    - XY states $\left|0\right>$ and $\left|1\right>$ when the SLM mask is applied on a `Microwave.Global` channel.

> 

Reviewer: I though I knew the difference between DMM and SLM and I think now I am a b it confused. 
Is there a way to explain what they do in few words?

Author: See answer above :)

> ## Digital Quantum Computing

Reviewer: In the current version of the doc, there is no place where we define explicitly the digital paradigm. We only mention in the convention which basis and which channel to pick.

Author: Yeah, but this is normal, this is not something we want to advertise before that point in the documentation. What about adding the sentence from the white paper ? 
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/637343e8-dc94-4448-8061-0901f9cd117b)

By using `Rydberg` and `Raman` channels in your quantum program, you can program digital quantum computations. To perform such operations, here are some extended usage of relevance:

> - [Local pulses and target operations](./tutorials/phase_shifts_vz_gates.nblink) enable to define a driving Hamiltonian for a set of targeted atoms specifically.

Reviewer 2: The link to this page is a bit misleading, no?

Author: I don't have any other notebook where this is presented... I am going to try to refer to this specific section https://pulser.readthedocs.io/en/stable/tutorials/phase_shifts_vz_gates.html#Phase-shifts-with-multiple-channels-and-different-targets
